# WIP Lambda Function Sam Development Environment

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders.

- handler - Code for the application's Lambda function.
- events - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- tests - Unit tests for the application code.
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources needed for SAM to work.

Resources that defined in the `template.yaml` file are only for SAM and the lamda function is deployed with terraform.

## Develop the application

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools.

- SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
- [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

Pull the required sam-build image (on mac) from ecr

```
aws ecr-public get-login-password --region us-east-1 | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin public.ecr.aws
docker pull public.ecr.aws/sam/build-python3.12:latest-arm64
```

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build --config-file ./src/samconfig.toml
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `hello_world/requirements.txt`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

Test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
sam local invoke --event events/event.json --config-file ./src/samconfig.toml
```

The SAM CLI reads the application template to determine the API's routes and the functions that they invoke. The `Events` property on each function's definition includes the route and method for each path.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
sam logs -n HandlerFunction --stack-name transform-ocsf-lambda --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Tests

Tests are defined in the `tests` folder in this project. Use PIP to install the test dependencies and run tests.

```bash
functions$ pip install -r tests/requirements.txt --user
# unit test
functions$ python -m pytest tests/unit -v
# integration test, requiring deploying the stack first.
# Create the env variable AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME with the name of the stack we are testing
functions$ AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME=<stack-name> python -m pytest tests/integration -v
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.

Next, you can use AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready to use Apps that go beyond hello world samples and learn how authors developed their applications: [AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/)

## Local Development

sam build
sam local-start-api

Grab a json payload from github webhook recent deliveries parse if trhough a RFC8259 formatter, to compress it, then paste the formatted json into postman as body. make sure to also copy the headers, especially the SHA-256 into postman also otherwise local invocation will fail with a 'invalid signature' error. Tools eg. <https://jsonformatter.curiousconcept.com/#>
